Telescope documentation (#866)
astronomer/docs: software/install-telescope.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Install Telescope'
title: 'Install Telescope on Airflow environments'
id: install-telescope
description: Install the Telescope tool to collect Airflow metrics and usage for Astronomer.
---

> Telescope is a CLI developed by Astronomer for generating additional metrics from your Airflow environments. It connects directly to Airflow and generates snapshots of your usage and configurations at various points in time. Astronomer uses this information to troubleshoot your environments and verify pricing based on task usage.

Author: What support/ SLAs do we have for this? Is support on the same level of the Astro CLI, or is this something else entirely? I'm a bit worried about documenting this without first having documented support expectations for this product, especially since its core function is extracting your data from Airflow.

Telescope doesn't have direct access to your Airflow environments. Instead, you run Telescope commands to observe the current state of an Airflow environment at a given point in time. Based on what it observes, Telescope generates a report which you can share with Astronomer support.  

You must run Telescope on all Software Deployments in your cloud, but you can additionally install it on local projects running with the Astro CLI for troubleshooting purposes.

> ## Prerequisites

Author: The README includes instructions for using Telescope with SSH, as well as running it on "local" Kubernetes. We don't have these use cases documented on Software docs, should we? How many customers are running telescope this way?

Reviewer: IMO - Just Kubernetes is probably fine here. We do less-frequently use the `ssh` mode, mostly for Astro Certified/OSS Airflow clients - but they are fewer

> To observe a local environment running with Telescope, you need:

Author: ```suggestion
To observe a local environment with Telescope, you need:
```

- `docker exec` permissions.
- Access to `docker.sock`.
- Python 3.6.
- An Airflow metadata db using Postgresql, Mysql, or Sqlite.

To observe a Deployment with Telescope, you need:

- kubectl.
- Permission to list nodes and exec into Pods.

## Install the Telescope CLI

> Install the Telescope CLI on a system that has direct access to your Airflow environments.

Author: ```suggestion
Install the Telescope CLI on a system that has permission to access either the Docker container or Kubernetes Pod for your Airflow environment's scheduler.
```

Reviewer: Can probably just be `kubernetes`

```sh
pip install telescope --find-links https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/releases/latest
```

</TabItem>

## Observe deployed environments

For a given Deployment:

1. Exec into the Deployment:

    ```sh
    kubectl exec deploy/<deployment-release-name>-scheduler
    ```

2. Run the following command:

    ```sh
    telescope --kubernetes --organization-name <your-organization>
    ```

    This command observes your Deployment's scheduler and outputs the results of the observation to a file ending in `data.json`.

:::info

By default, Telescope only observes Pods with the label `component=scheduler`. If your Deployments use an alternative label to denote scheduler Pods, use the `--label-selector` selector in your command. For example, if your label for scheduler pods is `role=scheduler`, you would run.  

```sh
--kubernetes --organization-name <your-organization> --label-selector "role=scheduler"
```

:::

## Observe local environments

Open your Astro project and run the following command:

```sh
telescope --docker
```

This command observes your Airflow environment's scheduler container and outputs the results of the observation to a file ending in `data.json`.

> ## Telescope report data

Author: Anything else we can say here about to attest to the security of these files? What data DOESN'T go in here?

Reviewer: We never collect the actual contents of the DAG (just operators, code complexity, variable and connection names), nor the contents of Variables and Connections (just the names). Also we obfuscate all secret-ish Airflow configs (e.g. if it looks like it'd have a password, we censor it)

Also Telescope can obfuscate DAG names upon request. Some clients asked for that

---
sidebar_label: 'Install Telescope'
title: 'Install Telescope on Airflow environments'
id: install-telescope
description: Install the Telescope tool to collect Airflow metrics and usage for Astronomer.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> Telescope is a CLI developed by Astronomer for generating additional metrics from your Airflow environments. It connects directly to Airflow and generates snapshots of your usage and configurations at various points in time. Astronomer uses this information to troubleshoot your environments and verify pricing based on task usage.

Author: Maybe cut pricing details just because it's more informal of  a process

> Telescope doesn't have direct access to your Airflow environments. Instead, you run Telescope commands to observe the current state of an Airflow environment at a given point in time. Based on what it observes, Telescope generates a report which you can share with Astronomer support.  

Author: ```suggestion
Telescope assumes your user's current permissions. You run Telescope commands with these permissions to observe the current state of an Airflow environment at a given point in time. Based on what it observes, Telescope generates a report which you can share with Astronomer support.  
```

You must run Telescope on all Software Deployments in your cloud, but you can additionally install it on local projects running with the Astro CLI for troubleshooting purposes.

## Prerequisites

To observe a local environment running with Telescope, you need:

- `docker exec` permissions.
- Access to `docker.sock`.
- Python 3.6.
- An Airflow metadata db using Postgresql, Mysql, or Sqlite.

To observe a Deployment with Telescope, you need:

- kubectl.
- Permission to list nodes and exec into Pods.

## Install the Telescope CLI

Install the Telescope CLI on a system that has direct access to your Airflow environments.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="binary"
    values={[
        {label: 'Binary', value: 'binary'},
        {label: 'Pip', value: 'pip'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="binary">

To install the Telescope binary, run the following commands:

```sh
$ wget https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/releases/latest/download/telescope-linux-x86_64

> $ chmod +x telescope-linux-x86_64

Reviewer: this is _only_ for linux. There's a binary release for each operating system

```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pip">

To install Telescope using pip, run the following command:

```sh
pip install telescope --find-links https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/releases/latest
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Observe deployed environments

For a given Deployment:

1. Exec into the Deployment:

    ```sh

>     kubectl exec deploy/<deployment-release-name>-scheduler

Author: ```suggestion
    kubectl exec deploy/<deployment-release-name>-scheduler
```
Make sure you're in the Kubernetes cluster of your installation

    ```

2. Run the following command:

    ```sh

>     telescope --kubernetes --organization-name <your-organization>

Author: ```suggestion
    telescope --kubernetes
```

Reviewer: feel free to leave that `--organization-name` in - but telescope will prompt you for it if you don't have it

---
sidebar_label: 'Install Telescope'

> title: 'Install Telescope on Airflow environments'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 'Install Telescope in Airflow environments'
```

id: install-telescope
description: Install the Telescope tool to collect Airflow metrics and usage for Astronomer.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import {siteVariables} from '@site/src/versions';

> Telescope is a CLI developed by Astronomer for generating additional metrics from your Airflow environments. It connects directly to Airflow and generates snapshots of your usage and configurations at various points in time. Astronomer uses this information to troubleshoot your environments.

Author: ```suggestion
[Telescope](https://github.com/astronomer/telescope) is a CLI developed by Astronomer for generating additional metrics from your Airflow environments. It connects directly to Airflow and generates snapshots of your usage and configurations at various points in time. Astronomer uses this information to troubleshoot your environments.
```

> Telescope assumes your current permissions whenever you run a command. If these permissions, Telescope can observe your Airflow environments at a given point in time. Based on what it observes, Telescope generates a report which you can share with Astronomer support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Telescope assumes your current permissions whenever you run a command. If you have the correct permissions, Telescope can observe your Airflow environments for a specific period and then generate a report that you can share with Astronomer support.
```

> Astronomer requests that you observe your Deployments with telescope at least once per month. You can additionally observe local projects running with the Astro CLI for troubleshooting purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends that you observe your Deployments with Telescope at least once a month. When required to assist with troubleshooting, you can observe local projects running with the Astro CLI.
```

## Prerequisites

> To observe a local with Telescope, you need:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To observe a local project with Telescope, you need:
```

- `docker exec` permissions.
- Access to `docker.sock`.
- Python 3.8.

To observe Software Deployments on Kubernetes with Telescope, you need:

- kubectl.
- Permission to list nodes and exec into Pods.
- Airflow 1.15+ or an equivalent version of Astro Runtime or Astronomer Certified.
- An Airflow metadata db using Postgresql, Mysql, or Sqlite.

To observe a standalone Airflow environment with Telescope, you need:

- An Airflow environment running on a machine with SSH enabled.
- Airflow 1.15+ or an equivalent version of Astro Runtime or Astronomer Certified.

## Install the Telescope CLI

> Depending on where you want to run Telescope, install the CLI on a system that has permissions for either Docker or your Software Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on where you want to run Telescope, install the CLI on a **system** that has permissions for either Docker or your Software Kubernetes cluster.
```

Machine? Computer?

        {label: 'Pip', value: 'pip'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="binary">

Go to the [**Releases** page of the Telescope GitHub repository](https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/releases). Based on the operating system and CPU architecture of your machine, download one of the `.zip` files for the latest available version of Telescope and make it an executable.

For example, to install Telescope on a Linux machine with x86_64 CPU architecture, you would run:

```sh
wget https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/releases/latest/download/telescope-linux-x86_64
chmod +x telescope-linux-x86_64
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="pip">

To install Telescope using pip, run the following command:

```sh
pip install telescope --find-links https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/releases/latest
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Observe deployed environments

In your Kubernetes cluster, run the following command:

```sh
telescope --kubernetes --organization-name <your-organization-name>
```

This command observes all scheduler containers in the cluster and outputs the results of the observation to a file named `<observation-date>.<your-organization-name>.data.json`.

:::info

> By default, Telescope only observes Pods with the label `component=scheduler`. If your Deployments use an alternative label to denote scheduler Pods, use the `--label-selector` selector in your command. For example, if your label for scheduler pods is `role=scheduler`, you would run.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Telescope only observes Pods with the label `component=scheduler`. If your Deployments use an alternative label to denote scheduler Pods, use  `--label-selector` in your command. For example, if your label for scheduler pods is `role=scheduler`, you would run.  
```

```sh
--kubernetes --organization-name <your-organization> --label-selector "role=scheduler"
```

:::

## Observe local environments running with the Astro CLI

Open your Astro project and run the following command:

```sh
telescope --docker --organization-name <your-organization-name>
```

This command observes scheduler containers on Docker and outputs the results of the observation to a file named `<observation-date>.<your-organization-name>.data.json`.

## Observe standalone Airflow environments

> You can use telescope to observe both Apache Airflow environments and standalone Astronomer Certified environments. This setup assumes you have two machines:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use Telescope to observe both Apache Airflow environments and standalone Astronomer Certified environments. This setup assumes you have two machines:
```

> - A remote machine running Airflow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A remote machine running Airflow.
```

> - A local machine that you use to connect to your remote machine

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A local machine that you use to connect to your remote machine.
```

> 1. On the remote machine running Airflow, create file called `~/.ssh/config` and open it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the remote machine running Airflow, create a file named `~/.ssh/config` and then open it.
```

2. Add the following configuration to the file:

    ```yaml
    Host <your-machine-hostname>
        User <your-username> # Specify the username for logging into the machine
        Port <your-connection-port> # Chose any available port on the machine
    ```

>     You can configure additional details, such as an SSH key, as described on [Linuxize](https://linuxize.com/post/using-the-ssh-config-file/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Optional. Add additional configurations, such as an SSH key. See [Linuxize](https://linuxize.com/post/using-the-ssh-config-file/).
```
This should probably be a procedure step.

3. Optional. Repeat steps 1 and 2 for any additional remote machines that you want to obeserve with Telescope.
3. On your local machine, create a file called `hosts.yaml` and open it.
4. Add the following configuration to the file:

    ```yaml
    ssh:
      - host: <your-machine-hostname>
      - host: <your-machine-hostname-2> # Optional
    ```

5. Run the following command to observe Airflow on the remote machine:

    ```sh
    telescope -f hosts.yaml --organization-name <your-organization-name>
    ```

This command observes the Airflow scheduler and outputs the results of the observation to a file named `<observation-date>.<your-organization-name>.data.json`.

## Telescope report data

> After Telescope observes an Airflow environment, it generates a file ending in `data.json` with information about the the environment. Some of the report's details include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After Telescope observes an Airflow environment, it generates a file ending in `data.json` with information about the environment. Some of the report's details include:
```

- Airflow version
- Provider packages and versions
- Airflow configurations
- The names of Airflow variables, connections, and settings
- DAG and task-level configurations
- Task run usage

> Telescope never collects the code of DAGs nor the contents of Airflow configurations such as variables and connections.

Author: ```suggestion
Telescope never collects the code of DAGs nor the contents of Airflow configurations such as variables and connections. DAG names can be obfuscated using the `--dag-obfuscation` flag in your Telescope command.
```

> Telescope never collects the code of DAGs nor the contents of Airflow configurations such as variables and connections. DAG names can be obfuscated using the `--dag-obfuscation` flag in your Telescope command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Telescope never collects the DAG codes or the contents of Airflow configurations such as variables and connections. To hide DAG names, use the `--dag-obfuscation` flag in your Telescope command .
```

For all report details and functions, see the [Telescope GitHub repository](https://github.com/astronomer/telescope/blob/main/telescope/__main__.py).

## Send Telescope reports to Astronomer support

> 1. In the [Astronomer support portal](https://support.astronomer.io/), create a ticket called `<Organization-name>: Telescope Results`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the [Astronomer support portal](https://support.astronomer.io/), create a ticket titled `<Organization-name>: Telescope Results`
```

> 2. Attach the `data.json` file that was generated by Telescope to the ticket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Attach the Telescope generated `data.json` file to the ticket.
```
